# 2.1.3. Unwanted operators

Some operators and keywords, although present in PHP, negatively influence the
readability of the code and ease of testing and therefore SHOULD NOT be used.

## ELSE operator

An `else` operator signals that the method is too long and should be divided into
smaller methods. All `else` operators SHOULD be swapped for `return` operators. The only
place where an `else` operator is appropriate is template code where it is impossible
to return early.

## ELSEIF operator

An `elseif` operator is undesirable for the same reason as `else` operator. Sequences of
`elseif`'s should be replaced by `switch`'s wherever appropriate. There is a single case
where `elseif` MAY be used outside of template code - in factories, together with `instanceof` 
operator, since PHP does not allow to use `switch` in this case:
```
if ($foo instanceof Bar) {
} elseif ($foo instanceof Baz) {
}
```

## SWITCH, CASE and DEFAULT operators

`switch/case` operators are just `elseif`'s with better syntax. They SHOULD be used
in factories and SHOULD NOT be used anywhere else. `return` rather than `break` SHOULD
be used inside `case` body, therefore `default` operator SHOULD NOT ever be used.

## Ternary operator

Ternary operator is nothing more than `else` in disguise, besides, it looks even less
readable. Ternary operators MUST NOT be used outside of templates.

## CONTINUE and BREAK operators

Both `continue` and `break` operators inside cycles are signals for methods that are too 
long, therefore they SHOULD NOT be used, use `return` instead.

## WHILE and DO WHILE operators

Both of these are dangerous because they can lead to infinite cycles, therefore
they SHOULD NOT be used, use `foreach` and `for` instead.

## INSTANCEOF operator

Outside of factories, using `instanceof` means that the coder is missing a polymorphic
hierarchy. `instanceof` SHOULD NOT be used outside of factories, and if there is no
simple way to get rid of it, then a refactoring is due. There is a single exception -
namely, a check for interface, where PHP does not allow us to type-hint, such as
```
public function myFunc(Foo $bar)
{
if ($bar instanceof BazInterface) {}
}
```

## FINAL keyword

It is hard to mock a final class in a unit test and it is hard to say whether a
class will have a unit-testable dependent or not, therefore `final` keyword
MUST NOT be used. If a coder has a strong opinion that the class must not be extended,
a special annotation MAY be used:
```
/* final */ class Foo
```
