# 2.5. New features of PHP 7

All guidelines below are applicable to new code only. There is no need to scour over the existing code
and make changes along these guidelines, however if changes are needed for some other reason, they MAY be
made in accordance with these guidelines.

Scalar argument types SHOULD be type-hinted. All return types SHOULD be type-hinted. In case if an array or 
an iterable object can be returned (e.g. Eloquent calls), `iterable` type hint MAY be used. In case where
an argument or a return type can accept `null` along with some other type, nullable type hints SHOULD be
used, e.g. `?int`. In case where a function does not return anything, `void` type hint SHOULD be used.

Note that type hints do not affect PHPDoc rules, as, at least in PHP 7.2, PHPDoc allows for more strict
definitions, such as `int[]`, as well as `@throws` annotation that is not yet present in native PHP.

Generic arguments and return types SHOULD NOT be used unless there is a good enough reason to use them,
such as emulation of overloading by using conditionals with functions such as `is_array`. Generic type hint
`object` MUST NOT be used, use polymorphism or arrays instead.

Strict mode for type hints MUST NOT be used.

Null coalescing operator MUST NOT be used, as it is harder to read than a conditional, and it may easily
be skipped when writing tests.

Spaceship operator SHOULD be used for sorting callbacks and lambdas.

`list` keyword MUST NOT be used as it always had readability problems, and in PHP 7 it can finally be replaced
with array destructuring.

Class constants MUST be declared as private or protected if they are not used outside of a class or a hierarchy.
Otherwise, class constants MUST be explicitly declared public.
