# 3.3.1. SOA principles

Laravel is built on top of its own service container that is the single central
element for this framework. All development SHOULD be service-oriented which means
that services SHOULD contain all or nearly all of the application's business logic.

Here are the basic principles of service-oriented architecture (SOA) that SHOULD be
respected when writing or calling services.

## Statelessness

A service MUST be stateless which means that it does not keep anything on its properties
except for constructor dependencies. Statelessness prevents temporal coupling (public
methods may be called in any order) and ensures that a service works in the same way whether
it is marked as singleton or not. In other words, we MUST handle each service as if it was
a singleton, and if there is no really important reason why it should be otherwise.

## Few public methods

A service SHOULD have a single public method. This ensures that the service follows
the Single Responsibility Principle and is easy enough to test. The service MUST NOT
have more than three public methods and MUST NOT have any setter methods to keep stateless.

## Few dependencies

A service MUST NOT have more than five dependencies on other objects, and SHOULD NOT 
have more than three dependencies on other objects to follow SRP and be easily testable.
A service MAY have additional non-object dependencies such as global config parameters.

Also, since all services are unit-testable, they MUST respect the rules set out in 4.1.1.
