# 8.1. Creating and managing Jira issues

All work, except for non-committable tasks such as server administration MUST be done through Jira issues.
Some issues, including all epics, are created by product owners, however any dev MAY create an issue.

A Jira issue, with the exception of epics, SHOULD represent a task that is small enough for the code to be
thoroughly reviewed in reasonable time. Jira manual suggests 16 work hours as the biggest possible estimate
for a single non-epic task. In practice, one SHOULD try to estimate timeframe for a single task somewhat lower
than that, at 10-12 hours max.

## Epic issues

Epic issues SHOULD be created by product owner in accordance with the project roadmap. Epic issues SHOULD
have definite beginning and end - in other words, creating an epic for "Fixing bugs" is not a good idea.
Epic issues have git branches of their own that SHOULD NOT be used for anything else than merging off and
comparing against in PR's. More than one developer MAY work on an epic.

In general, epics are created when there is a suspicion that a task is too big and it needs to be broken down
in several pieces. However, the order of execution of parts of an epic does not matter - tasks within an epic
may be dependent on one another or not. All tasks not belonging to a single epic MUST be independent of each
other.

## Stories / tasks

Stories and tasks in Jira differ only in name. Task is a more generic word that should be used when in doubt.
Normally, every issue that is neither an epic nor a bug SHOULD be marked as a story or task. A task MAY be
a part of an epic as well as standalone.

## Subtasks

Subtasks are the same to tasks as tasks are to epics, they also have an issue number and a branch or branches
of their own. However, subtasks are less convenient to manage, therefore they SHOULD NOT normally be used.
If a task proves bigger than expected, the right course of action would normally be creation of another
task under the same epic. If a task is not attached to an epic, it SHOULD be subtasked when there is a need 
to prevent too big a PR.

## Bugs

Bugs are handled differently than other tasks in terms of merging, which means that bug-related issues MUST be
marked as bugs in Jira. In order to be called a bug, the problem MUST satisfy two conditions:

* it is present on the code which is currently live
* it needs to be fixed ASAP.

Issues that satisfy these requirements but cannot be rightfully called bugs (rather hotfixes for small 
missing features which are badly needed and easy enough to implement) MUST be marked as bugs as well.

## Workflow markers

Proper workflow markers MUST be used as soon as there is some change in status of underlying git branch
or branches. "In progress" is used when there is at least one line of code written in the branch,
"Under review" - when a PR already exists and is ready for review, "Done" - when the PR was merged.
