# 8.2.7. Rules for Wiki changes

If a developer considers the project Wiki to be incomplete, inadequate or excessive, they can create a
request to change the project wiki. These requests in general should follow the same rules as any other Jira issues:
an issue is created, then a numbered branch is created, then a PR is created and merged. However, there are
some additional rules for wiki changes.

These are proper cases for changes to Wiki:
* a present rule is not de facto observed by any team member and PR's that violate the current rules are routinely 
  accepted and merged
* a present rule is obsolete and does not correspond to the present state of the code
* rules are not specific enough and it was shown that bad or buggy code may be written with full accordance
  to the rules
* rules are unclear and may be read ambiguously
* rules are incomplete and miss out on an important aspect of the app or fail to resolve conflicts between
  team members.

Requests for changes to the Wiki MUST NOT share Jira issue number with anything else that does not pertain
to the Wiki. It SHOULD be considered a good practice to ask everyone in the team for review of a new Wiki
rule, and everyone in the team SHOULD give definite approval or rejection. The review period for a Wiki-changing 
PR SHOULD be longer than normal, and not less than 72 hours, or until everyone approves. The normal rules for whether 
to approve the PR or not do not apply for Wiki changes.

After the change is merged, the coder who did the merge MUST execute respective change in Wiki section
on github, so that both files in VCS and the wiki section are always in sync.

## Solving conflicts

Due to its nature, Wiki changes are more subjective and prone to conflicts than "normal" PR's. Here are
some outlines for the etiquette that SHOULD be observed:
* If there is a point of discontent among the team on a specific rule, the requester should provide detailed
  thoughts for reasons of the change, preferably providing links to some authority such as a manual, a style
  guide or even a blog post.
* If provided reason and links are not considered to be enough by other team members, the requester should
  think about lowering the severity. Usually, style rules that do not influence how the software 
  works should have SHOULD / SHOULD NOT severity rather than MUST / MUST NOT.
* If this does not help as well, the requester should consider abandoning the request completely. Minor
  style discrepancies inside the code are less detrimental to the team productivity than conflicts inside the team.
* If the perceived negative impact of not having the rule (or having it, if the request is for removal)
  is too big to be ignored, call for mediation to the product owner should be used as last resort only.
