# 8.2.3. Code reviews

The PR creator MAY send review requests to any team member, however any team member MAY conduct a code
review on any PR, no matter if they were requested to do so or not. Besides, if the PR is merged by someone
else than its creator, the dev who does the merging MUST conduct a code review before merging.

Reviewing the code SHOULD be considered a top priority for any coder who is around at the time when a PR is made, 
because non-reviewed PR's can create a significant stumbling block in the workflow of their creator.
If a coder wants to review the code but cannot do it right now, they SHOULD leave a comment that starts
a review and conduct the review itself later.

However, normally all reviews SHOULD be made within 24 hours since PR creation time for normal branches,
or within 72 hours for epic roots. If within 24 hours other team members neither reviewed the code nor expressed
their wish to do so, and the creator has the right to merge, the PR MAY be merged though it is not recommended
to do such merges other than for bugfixes and high-priority issues.

Before approving or rejecting the PR, the reviewer SHOULD do the following:
* Pull the branch
* Study the diff
* Run automated tests, including acceptance
* Run manual tests in the browser, presumably according to relevant acceptance tests

A PR MUST be accepted by the reviewer if none of the following is true and MUST NOT be accepted if at least
one is true:
* There occurred a violation of rules for creating pull requests, as listed in this wiki
* The code is not sufficiently covered with tests, so that some new features are left untested
* Any of the tests, including manual tests, fail, except for normal test volatility
* There are violations of MUST / MUST NOT rules of this wiki
* There are multiple and repeated violations of SHOULD / SHOULD NOT rules of this wiki

If the reviewer accepts a PR, but they have some reservations such as the code not according to a specific
best practice or design pattern not outlined in this wiki, the reviewer MAY add relevant comments or
create a new issue for additions to the wiki, however, these changes will not affect the PR in question.

In case of PR rejection and re-submitting, the 24-hour timeframe for new reviews applies. 

In case of bugfixes, PR's still need to be created, but review requirements are more lax - the creator
SHOULD ask everyone who is online at the time of a bugfix PR creation if they want to review and then merge.

If an update to an upstream branch was made during the code review, the PR creator should repeat the downstream 
merging procedure.
