# 8.2.6. Rules for bugfixes and hotfixes

In order to be called a bug, the problem MUST satisfy two conditions:

* it is present on the code which is currently live
* it needs to be fixed ASAP.

Issues that satisfy these requirements but cannot be rightfully called bugs are known as hotfixes.

The workflow for dealing with bugs and hotfixes is different from normal. First of all, we presume that
all code that is live was properly tested, therefore a bug indicates a gap in tests. Whenever a bugfix
is made, the developer who creates bugfix PR MUST provide a new test that fails before the PR is merged and
passes after the PR is merged, even if the original test coverage could be considered adequate under
normal circumstances.

Normal reviewing and merging practices can be skipped for bugfixes, however the list of coders with merging
rights does not change, which means that for performance reasons bugfixing SHOULD be handled by a coder
with merging rights.

## Bugs that are not yet pushed

If a problem looks like a bug but is located in code not yet pushed to production on one of the main branches, 
including master, it needs to be handled similarly to other bugs, however the developer who caught the bug
MUST communicate with the team, making a strong point that no merges can be made until the bug is fixed
and missing tests added.

## Environment-dependent bugs

Though effort is made to make the app environment-independent, it is still possible that some environments
will have problems that others don't have. If one or more devs experience problems during manual or automated
tests that cannot be reproduced by others, a coder with the access to the staging server should pull the code
in question to the staging server and see if the error persists. We presume that staging server environment
can be reliably called a copy of production environment, therefore everything that appears to be a bug
in staging is a proper bug, while if everything works in staging, it is up to devs who experience problems
to reconfigure their environment. 
