# 8.2.5. Rules for bugfixes and hotfixes

In order to be called a bug, the problem MUST satisfy three conditions:

* it leads to unexpected behavior
* it is present on master branch
* it needs to be fixed ASAP.

Issues that satisfy the second and third conditions but do not lead to unexpected behavior are known as hotfixes.

The workflow for dealing with bugs and hotfixes is different from normal. First of all, we presume that
all code that is live was properly tested, therefore a bug indicates a gap in tests. Whenever a bugfix
is made, the developer who creates bugfix PR SHOULD provide a new test that fails before the PR is merged and
passes after the PR is merged, even if the original test coverage could be considered adequate under
normal circumstances.

All bugfix issues MUST be marked as bugfixes in Jira, MUST be merged off master, and MUST be merged back to master.
Whenever a bugfix issue is merged, the developer who does the merge makes a downstream merge of master to develop,
and other developers merge develop into their branches.

Normal reviewing and merging practices can be made more lax for bugfixes, especially ones with the highest
priority.

## Bugs that are not yet merged

If a problem looks like a bug but is located in code not yet on master, it needs to be handled as a regular issue, 
however if the sprint is drawing to a close, the developer who caught the bug MUST ensure that buggy code does not 
result on master, including resetting if necessary.

## Environment-dependent bugs

Though effort is made to make the app environment-independent, it is still possible that some environments
will have problems that others don't have. If one or more devs experience problems during manual or automated
tests that cannot be reproduced by others, a coder with the access to the staging server SHOULD pull the code
in question to the staging server and see if the error persists. We presume that staging server environment
can be reliably called a copy of production environment, therefore everything that appears to be a bug
in staging is a proper bug, while if everything works in staging, it is up to devs who experience problems
to reconfigure their environment. 
