# 8.2.4. Merging

Once a PR has been approved by all reviewers and there are no other team members who are willing to conduct
a review, the PR SHOULD be merged without further delay. There is an exception to this rule - if the PR is
suspected of causing multiple subtle changes to untested areas of code, it SHOULD be put into the QA process,
the matter of putting a PR under QA needs to be discussed with the management on case-by-case basis. 

Not every coder has the right to merge to a repo. If a coder cannot merge, they SHOULD ask someone who is
around and can merge. Even if the PR creator can merge, they SHOULD refrain from merging their own PR's
if there is someone else with the merging rights around, except for bugfixes. The reason for that is that while 
the merging process is on, the developer who merges may re-check portions of the code, familiarizing themselves 
with it and maybe even noticing a bug or guideline violation.

It is up to the coder who does the merge to fix any possible merge conflicts as they see fit. After the
merge is complete, the coder who does the merge MUST make sure that all automated tests pass.

A sideways merge is a merge of one branch into an unrelated branch (meaning that the closest possible relative
between the two branches is develop). Sideways merges are allowed if a developer is working on a high-priority
task that is blocked by another unrelated task, given that the branch to be merged already has a PR and this
PR is ready for review or under review. Bugfix branches MUST NOT use sideways merges as they can lead to accidental
merging of develop to master. 

After the merge, both the merged branch and the underlying issue MUST be closed to prevent accidental editing.
Any corrections added after the merge should be made in separate branches with new Jira issue numbers. It
is not allowed to re-open a Jira issue if the PR connected with that issue was successfully merged.
