# 9.3. Writing Gherkin

Feature files are written using Gherkin language. The specification of Gherkin syntax can be obtained 
[here](https://cucumber.io/docs/reference#gherkin). Gherkin is not a programming language and can be used 
with any programming language.

Gherkin looks "almost" like English, but there are two important points that MUST be observed in Gherkin,
unlike plain English text; these are reusability and idempotency.

## Reusability

The strongest point of Gherkin text, as compared to plain xUnit, is reusability, it ensures that on a sufficiently 
big codebase test code will be much less verbose than if writing non-reusable Gherkin. In order to make 
Gherkin reusable, use quoted variables as much as possible. For example, instead of writing
```
When the page loads
Then I see submit button
When I click submit button
Then the form submits
```

you can write this:
```
When the page loads
Then I see "submit" button
When I click "submit" button
Then the form submits
```

This way, the same Gherkin can be reused for a different page where the button is called something different, e.g. 
"Go". In fact, this Gherkin can (and should) be used for ANY button in the application. IDEs give helpers for 
Gherkin lines that look similar to existing lines, use them.

## Idempotency

Having non-idempotent lines is the single most often occurring mistake when writing Gherkin. In common speech, 
lines tend to depend on previous lines. For example, take this Gherkin:
```
When the page loads
Then I see submit button
When I click this button
Then the form submits
```

Here line 3 depends on line 2. If we delete line 2, line 3 would make no sense because it is unclear which 
button we are talking about. Another common example of non-idempotent lines concerns `AND` operator:
```
Then I see submit button
And it is red
```

Obviously, these two lines cannot be swapped places.

Idempotency means that every line must make sense if other lines would not exist. `When A and B` MUST be 
equivalent to `When B and A`. Non-idempotent Gherkin is not reusable because it means we cannot reuse this 
line in a different scenario.

## Scenario length

Unlike unit tests, that normally should be short, acceptance tests MAY be pretty long for the sake of performance. 
The rule of thumb on where to divide a scenario into parts is: one scenario SHOULD correspond to actions of 
one user in a single part of the application where session variables are shared. So, normally a single
feature SHOULD have one scenario per test user, e.g. one for normal user, one for admin, one for anonymous. 
If more than one user needs to be guided through absolutely identical steps, such as testing i18n features 
for users with different locales, scenario outlines SHOULD be used.

## Specificity

As said before, feature files are non-specific and devoid of technicalities.

Bad example:
```
Scenario: Test that JWT token is generated properly
Given user called "foo" exists
When user "foo" requires page "/hello"
Then a JWT token gets appended to the query string in AJAX call
Given user called "bar" does not exist
When user "bar" requires page "/hello"
Then no JWT token gets appended to the query string in AJAX call
```

Good example:
```
Scenario: Test user authentication
Given user called "foo" exists
When user "foo" requires "Welcome" page
Then they see a welcome page
Given user called "bar" does not exist
When user "bar" requires "Welcome" page
Then they see "403" error page
```

## Line order

Unlike some Gherkin guides, this guide does not limit the order of `When` and `Then` lines in a scenario,
because such limits usually lead to some overhead. However, all `Given` lines MUST NOT appear anywhere
but in the beginning of a scenario.
